When I first read the spec of the project, I was pretty excited to see the problem, it seemed creative to implement and not boring. It was a fun problem to solve since there was a real life aspect to it which I could relate it. However, I thought Prolog was a challenging language since I never had any exposure to it before and the spec seemed overwhelming with all the technical aspects. 

  When starting with Prolog, I did some background research on it because when going over it in class, I didn't have a strong grasp on it. I learned that Prolog is a logic programming language heavily used in computational linguistics and artificial intelligence in general. I found the last program a challenge since it was functional programming as well so learning another language using functional programming seemed like another upheaval. I thought the rules of Prolog were a bit challenging initally but caught on it after I made a sample program of my own and got comfortable on how to run Prolog. I learned that rules are a key concept of the language and allow us to make general statements about objects and their relationships. They consist of a head and a body connected by the turnstile symbol :- which is pronounced “if”. When running the program, the line in the terminal reads as a question, which is indicated by the ?. In contrast to most other languages capitalisation matters in Prolog. Strings starting with a lowercase character are immutable and called atoms, you can compare them with the symbol type in Ruby. Strings starting with an uppercase character or an underscore are variables and can change their value. 

  The rules of Prolog allow for multiple uses of recursion which helped a lot in this project. The hardest part was getting the connectivity of one friend to another, figuring out the logic for that was tricky to say the least. I had to write the logic in pseudocode to start off. Starting there wasn't as bad, however it did take me a while to understand all the little steps it took to get the big picture. I divided up each step and it felt like less of a strenous task that way. Debugging was not a fun process at all but after some trial and error, I figured out what worked for me and used that to my advantage. I'm glad the swipl command is similar to a bash shell, it was a fun and new process for me to learn. Overall, I had a good challenge learning this type of programming, I learned a lot and another language simultaneously. In the future, I would definitely do more research on functional programming and learn how to become better at it. 

  Thanks for taking the time to read this! If you would like to see my project, don't hesitate to contact me. My repos are private for school purposes but my email is lavanya@vt.edu
